

NAT Gateway Vs NAT Instance
AWS Docs: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-comparison.html

Summary:
- NAT Gateway is managed and tailed to handling NAT traffic- Costs More
- NAT instance:
  - Pay for the instance
  - Can be used as a bastion server/jump box


### Creating Your NAT Instance Security Group


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.

In the navigation pane, choose Security Groups, and the choose Create Security Group.

Specify a name and description for the security group. In this topic, the name NATSG is used as an example. For VPC, select the ID of your VPC and choose Yes, Create.

Select the NATSG security group that you created. The details pane displays the details for the security group, plus tabs for working with its inbound and outbound rules.

On the Inbound Rules tab, choose Edit and add rules for inbound traffic as follows:

Choose Type, HTTP . For Source, enter the IP address range of your private subnet.

Choose Add another rule, Type, HTTPS. For Source, enter the IP address range of your private subnet.

Choose Add another rule, Type, SSH. For Source, enter your network's public IP address range.

Choose Save.

On the Outbound Rules tab, choose Edit and add rules for outbound traffic as follows:

Locate the default rule that enables all outbound traffic and choose Remove.

Choose Type, HTTP. For Destination, enter 0.0.0.0/0.

Choose Add another rule, Type, HTTPS. For Destination, enter 0.0.0.0/0.

Choose Save.

When the VPC wizard launched the NAT instance, it used the default security group for the VPC. You need to associate the NAT instance with the NATSG security group instead.

To change the security group of the NAT instance

Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.

In the navigation pane, choose Instances.

Select the NAT instance from the list and choose Actions, Networking, Change Security Groups.

Select the NATSG security group that you created (see Security) and choose Assign Security Groups.